# pick-your-team

## Description

The purpose of this project is to build a team profile generator from scratch. This is to provide managers with quick and easy access to their team member's emails and GitHub profiles. The generated HTML page features different employees with their respective that contain the following: the employee name, role, email, ID number. For managers, an office number is noted. For engineers, the GitHub profile is linked. For interns, the school that they attend is noted. Tests are created and passed to ensure that the information entered is correct. This new HTML page is generated entirely via the command line. 

Since everything is built from scratch, the new HTML is generated by using JavaScript entirely. The star of this project is would be the use of the Inquirer package within Node.js. Running the command `node index.js` is what pulls up the question to generate the HTML page that is created. The use of the JEST package within Node.js allows for the testing to occur. Object-oriented programming is key since it helps to organize the different classes and call upon them within certain JavaScript files (generateHTML.js + index.js).

## Technologies Used 
* JavaScript
    * Node.js: Inquirer, JEST

## Usage

NOTE: it is important to install the Inquirer package first! Run `npm init -y`, then run `npm install inquirer`.

To generate a HTML page with the team's profiles, open up Terminal and run the command `node index.js`. This will prompt the user to answer a series of questions which will populate the appropriate fields within the generated HTML page. Click the video above to access the Google Drive link. 

## Installation
1. Create a new repository on Github. 
    - Press the "+" sign on the top right hand corner, or the "new" button on your GitHub homepage. 
    - Create an unique name for your repository, and make the respository public. 
    - Click the "README" option to include the "README" page. 
    - Your new repository has been created.
2. Open GitBash (PC users) or Terminal (Mac users).
    - Navigate to where you want to clone your new repository onto your local machine. 
        - Use `cd` to help you navigate. 
3. To clone the new repository onto your local machine. 
    - Click the respository that you just made on github.com.
    - Click the "code" button and choose the SSH option. 
    - Copy the SSH option to your clipboard. 
    - On GitBash/Terminal, enter the command `git clone git@github.com:<UserNAME>/<demo-repo>.git`
        - After `git clone`, paste the SSH option from your clipboard into GitBash/Terminal.
        - Since the SSH option was used, enter the password for the SSH key when asked. 
4. You have now cloned your new repository.
    - Using `cd`, navigate into your new repository from the location that you have saved it in. 
    - Use `ls` to see what is inside the new repository currently. 
        - It should only include the README page as of now.
5. Tranferring the project files into your new directory on your local machine. 
    - Using Finder/Explorer, copy the corresponding files that are needed to edit your project. 
    - In another Finder/Explorer window, navigate to your new repository, and paste the files directly into that folder. 
6. On GitBash/Terminal, after pasting the project files into the new repository. 
    - Use `ls` to see what is now inside the new repository.
        - This should now include the README page, and the project files that you have copy-pasted in. 
7. Use `git status` to see if there any changes that need to be made to the repository. 
    - At this point, git will tell you that there is an untracked file .
8. Use `git add .` to add the new project files, and allow the new files to be tracked by git.
9. Use `git commit -m "add base project files"` to commit the changes have recently been made to the repository. 
10. Use `git push origin main` to sync your local machine with GitHub. 
    - Enter your SSH password when prompted. 
11. Use `code .` to open the files on a code reader of your choice.
12. Edit the files as necessary in your code reader. 
13. Periodically, and when you are finished with editing your code: 
    - Follow Steps 7-10 to keep your repository up to date with the changes that have been made. 
14. How to deploy the webpage:
    - After one final push to the repository, direct yourself to the repository's settings. 
    - Click the "pages" option from the sidebar. 
    - Select "main branch" as the source, and check that it selected for the "root" option. 
    - Click "Save" to deploy your webpage. 
    - *Give 5-10 minutes for the webpage to display the full contents.
15. You have successfully completed this project!

## Credits

Initial prompt given by UC Berkeley Extension, Coding Bootcamp. 

## Reflection
 
For this project, it was important to learn the usage of Node.js. It was important to learn the use of the commands `npm init -y` and the `npm install inquirer`. The command `node index.js` is what really makes this whole application for the command line work. It was also important to run a `npm install jest`, in order to run the tests with `npm run test`. This project is successful because it successfully generates a new team profile page. 

## License

Licensed under the [MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/#) license. 

## Contributors

Feel free to reach out to me at the following: 
* [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/snehita-kolli-0abb23b1/)
* [GitHub](https://github.com/snehitak20)
